The Joe Rogan experience.
Yeah, I wanted to state for the record though, the,
the violence that happened after I was beat up was involving the men's rights
activist group and Antifa proud boys was holding. Uh,
they held this upward event in a different part of the city. Uh,
as far as I know, they did not. There was no, uh, conflict.
This, in this particular, right in the social club,
who was the men's rights guy.
It was actually a woman, a woman.
Who's a men's rights person. Yes. That's hilarious. She must love Dick. Right.
If you had a guess.
No comment.
Sorry, I'm a comedian. Can't help. But, um, you don't even have to say her name,
so she's she, she organized this thing. Yeah.
I would say, um, here's the other thing, you know,
like I might, what needs to be stated as well about, I guess,
the right wing movements that, um,
are in Portland or come to Portland to do these events.
There's an element of being provocative too as well,
but that should never ever justify the violence. Cause I mean.
W w explain what you mean by being a provocateur?
Well, for example, holding, uh, an event in the middle of downtown titling it,
um, like an event justice for victims of domestic terrorism,
and then having a picture of Antifa like that is an, you know,
it's an unflattering. Yes, it's an influx, you know,
it causes a reaction. Um, so there's a,
you know, there's a,
there's an element of coming in and seeing let's enrage,
these Luna takes on the far left or whatever. Um,
but at the same time,
I want to make sure I state that just because somebody is quote unquote
provocative too,
is a walk in the woods with a writing that it's unfortunate that people
now find that that's justification for you to react.
Well, I think, again, it's a small percentage of people that find it,
this justification. And you look at the number of people that were there.
What is it? Thousands, thousands of people,
how many people actually engage in violence.
Small number.
But small number. That's the problem.
It's important to note that they caught morale from the crowd who would shoot.
Wearing them on the cowards, the cowards who don't disavow this horrific action.
They cheered them on laughed and clapped as I was getting beaten.
And then the other thing about the people showing up in numbers,
who don't engage in the violence, the state,
they are like literal human shields. They dress the same.
So they make it easy for the few violent militants to dock into the crowd.
Exactly.
And these people also watched the cops and they keep an eye out on potential
outsiders as well.
I'm a game, it's become a game. It's become a gigantic team war.
There's our team versus their team. It's like,
it's literally like playing a child hood game. It's really disturbing,
man. And so since this has anyone from
Antifa apologized about what happened to you or disavow the
actions of these few extreme, violent people.
Of course not. Um,
Antifa has an iron fist on the people who support its
movements. They don't allow any type of design actually in there,
like press releases. You can call, call them. Um,
they explicitly state that even basically,
even if you disagree with our tactics, you will not publicly state it.
It's to create, I guess, as in image of unity. Right. For.
And even if you disagree inside the organization. Yes.
So how organized are they?
They are able to leader their interest of Antifa.
As we understand it today, really crystallize only after 2016,
there's been very little academic research until how they actually organized,
but basically as a movement,
they have essentially cells across the country that are semi
autonomous, United by an ideology of anarchy, an Arco,
communism, and their support for violence.
So it's not so much a group itself.
It's the people who are part of that movement are drawn from other actual
groups. They draw from the DSA, they draw from various workers, unions,
other anarchist groups,
and like other terrorist entities.
They have processes to radicalize, um,
sympathizers, essentially. They have their own literature as well.
And so it's much more organized than people give them credit for.
They think of them as just, you know, people showing up to fight on the street.
It's, there's, there's meaning to that,
to that violence and there's literature to back it up. And they have, you know,
they actively recruit people to join the movement. So,
um, I've been asked like, do you think the federal authorities should stop in,
in my, my responses?
I think it's come to the point that they do because with Antifa, um, it's not,
it's beyond what local authorities can do because a lot has these people,
a lot of them are in Portland from Portland, but a lot of them come from,
for example, from Eugene, from Seattle,
from neighboring areas that have other Antifa people come in to
participate in the violence for that day or to help out.
And then they go back to where they're from. So they're,
they're coming in and out of jurisdictions makes it hard for one local body of,
of authorities to address it. I think, um,
the DOJ needs to stop in, I think it's gotten to that point, but,
and with 2020 coming up soon, um,
there could be potential for a lot more political violence.
If the results don't, if the elections results don't go, as they wish.
Well, that's a,
an obvious considering the fact that this all became a thing after Trump was
elected. Yes. Um, with the, if the DOJ did step in,
what do you think they could do?
So that's well.
I mean,
do you believe in the ability to meet up and
express yourself publicly and the ability to protest and the ability
to just, uh, get together and have groups and,
and, you know, express yourself.
Yes. However, that's not just what Antifa does.
Like I said, the violence is a feature of their movement.
So what federal authorities.
Can I stop you there? When you say the violence is a feature of their movement,
is there, is it,
did they have anything written like the tenants of their movement where they say
that violence is acceptable?
There's a book called the antifascist handbook is written by
Mark Bray. He's an academic out doc myth. He is,
I would call him one of Antifa chief ideologues.
So not only does he explain what Antifa does and in his
writing scenes makes it very clear that the, um,
the quote unquote self-defense is what justifies the offense of violence.
He actually argues why that's ethical. So,
because he's an academic well-spoken, um,
he's invited onto mainstream media to explain to basically, like I said earlier,
mainstream, Antifa, what can.
You explain what he says?
Yes. I highly recommend that people take a look at his book. Um,
the attorney general in Minnesota, um,
Keith Ellison was photographed a year ago, holding,
holding up that book of Antifa book. And that kind of went, um,
he's been criticized a bit for that. And he deleted that in the chapter.
My beading.
Was holding it up in support.
Yeah. He said this. He said, uh,
something about like this book or Antifa strikes,
fear into the heart of Donald Trump. Yeah.
So there's people in government who has sympathetic to anti-Facebook.
But this professor can explain what he says.
He outlines and explains
essentially why auntie's FAS violence is
ethical.
That it's because they're opposing fascism and fascism
is a violent movement. This is sort of a preemptive move. Like we have to.
Fascism. Yeah. It is a problem, right? Yes.
Cause it seems like that's definitely something you should oppose,
but what is the, what's the actual definition of fascism.
Fascism as a far-right political ideology?
From what I understand is.
I love the definition, Jamie. So we could just read what fascism,
the actual word fascism means here,
form of radical right wing authoritarian, authoritarian,
ultra nationalism, characterized by dictatorial power,
forcible suppression of opposition and strong regimentation of society and of
the economy, which came to prominence in early 20th century, Europe,
um, forcible suppression of put the back up,
please forcible suppression of opposition is what they're doing. Yes.
Strong regimentation of society. I mean, they're,
they're literally telling people how to behave and what they will
tolerate. I know it's not right wing ideology,
but it's almost like fascism and I'm sure there's other definitions of fascism.
The idea of supporting someone who opposes fascism sounds wonderful.
It sounds great. Let's let's stop fascism,
but are we really experiencing authoritarian,
ultra nationalism characterized by dictatorial power in this country? I mean,
is that, is that a fair thing to say? I know people don't like Donald Trump.
I know people don't like right-wing ideologies running this country.
I understand that, but this is not, this is not what's happening.
Yeah.
They issue like fascism as defined by political theorists who
have been researching this for decades.
It has a particular definition in meaning and that's, um,
I think that summarizes it pretty well.
I'm very concerned that people use it so flippantly to just refer to the right
or to even authoritarianism,
like there's much more to it than just being authoritarian.
There's all those other components. And I need it.
It's important to state that Antifa is not just supposed to fall, right.
Or the right. They're also against liberal democracy.
There's a reason why they hate the police so much hate
border enforcement and hate the rule of law.
It's against died the concept of the nation state,
as we understand it. And they're working to dismantle that to de legitimize it.
So, um, this is what I mean when I say it's a,
it's a dangerous ideology that for now, you know, enemy of my enemy is your, um,
is your friend. But at some point,
if this movement becomes bigger,
more mainstream and more people are sympathetic. At some point,
it's going to come back against the moderate left
because these people, um,
they want to see the destruction of the nation.
Did want to see the destruction of the nation state for what purpose they want
anarchy. Yes. So they're political NRS, anarchist,
social anarchists. They don't want borders. They don't want nations.
They don't want police. Correct. What do they want
be? I mean, what do they expect? What's the ultimate goal. They.
To believe in a
utopian mocks, this ideas, right.
Of this restrict redistribution of wealth,
where we can be,
we can only be truly equal in egalitarian when we dismantle
everything about the country. So not just, you know, its institutions,
the rule of law, but the state itself,
like everything just has to be broken down and start over because it's
irredeemable. I'm not quite sure. I, if, I mean, they've, um,
you know, Antifa, um,
I can't think of like where they have had,
if there's any somewhat comparable examples around the world of what it looks
like for them to, um, do state building. Right.
So we don't know what it would actually look like, but I mean,
the examples we see from these smaller anecdotes is it's,
it's chaos and anarchy like absolute chaos and,
um, violent suppression of opposing views, um,
indiscriminate violence at times. Um,
I wonder,
and what I've been asking over and over is how many more people have to be
drawn into,
have to be victims of this violence before something changes.
And I put in Portland now we've had three years with us and
literally no policy changes have happened.
No even proposals have even been accepted by the mayor. The previous.
This mayor was what was his political persuasion or her,
I don't even know.
Well, the people who've become elected mayor and Portland's are typically
establishment Democrats, right?
So they themselves are moderate very much, uh, you know,
in the vein of, um, uh, Hillary Clinton type of thing.
But there's a constituency in Portland that they have to play
to four votes, which is the
radical people who are sympathetic to very,
very progressive causes.
And so there's a reason why to date.
The mayor has never named Antifa one time in any of his press conferences.
He has no problem blaming proud boys or Patriot pair the right for issues,
Patriot prayer.
The another group.
Patriot prayer is one of the other right wing movements in, uh,
in and around Portland that have held pro-Trump events in town that
Antifa comes to, to fight and oppose.
And how those turnout.
They devolve into riots.
And the police allowed us.
They allow it through their inaction.
Wow.
Okay.